12 Monkeys Movie Questions

1. What do we know about James Cole? Why does he have “AS-6” tattooed on him? Why is he made to “volunteer” and what for (what’s happened on earth’s surface)? Why is it significant that the scientists use inmates as volunteers? How does this hold up historically?

James Cole is an inmate in the underground society of the future. He is initially "volunteered" to go up to the surface to collect samples, where he sees a cockroach and a tiger. The use of inmates for scientific studies very quickly instills a lack of faith in this new society, as historically using inmates for scientific studies is fraught with ethical dilemmas.


2. What details of the underground bunker stand out to you? How do the filmmakers make this set seem futuristic and dated at the same time? Why?

The underground is steam punk in the extreme. It's futuristic in the sense that they have lot's of machinery (and a time machine), but for the most part could just have easily been set in a steam punk view of England.


3. When Cole mistakenly arrives in 1990, what happens? Track moments of brutality. What might be the film’s commentary on police and mental health systems?

When he arrives he is quickly arrested and sedated, after he puts two police officers in the hospital. Dr. Railly diagnoses him as mentally ill, and he is sent to a mental ward. The film's dismal portrayal of the police station and the hospital seems to be criticising our current police and mental health systems.


4. Who is Jeffrey Goines? How does he complicate our understanding of mental illness (consider his commentary on capitalism, consumerism, and the environment)? Track his progression throughout the film.

Jeffrey Goines is a fellow patient of the hospital, and is quite a complicated character. Though he seems to have a significant form of mental illness, his views on capitalism and the degradation of the environment certainly ring true. 


5. What is the Cassandra Complex? (Test your Greek mythology memory here). How does it apply to Cole’s time travel experiences?

The Cassandra complex is when someone believes they have important warnings, but no one listens to them. Cole certainly experiences this as his warning of the impending virus go ignored because people think he's crazy.


6. After Dr. Kathryn Railly’s lecture, Dr. Peters approaches her and tells her that apocalypse alarmists represent the sane vision while humanity’s gradual destruction of the environment is the real lunacy. Do you agree or disagree with his assessment? Check back at the end of the film.

I do to some extent. I hope that humanity can get itself on track to fix the mistakes we've made, but at the same time I'm not sure how optimistic to be about that idea.


7. In your opinion, are the Twelve Monkeys a fringe group attempting to speak truth to power or a dangerous threat?

I'm not sure that they're either. I don't think that they, as a group, are especially dangerous, and I think that their purpose is more along the lines of anarchy than spreading a message.


8. Why is it significant that Cole sees himself murdered at the airport (a fuzzy moment that plays out in his memories throughout the film). Is he trapped in a time loop? Is it a causal loop? See if you can identify some of the paradoxes in the plot.

It does seem to be a time loop, as the child Cole will then grow up to be adult Cole, who is killed, and so on. 


9. The final scene shows Peters, safely aboard the plane with the virus, as he sits down next to Jones, one of the scientists from the future, who comments that her job is “insurance.” What is the significance of this closing scene? What do you make of the ending?

I'm not really sure how to interpret the last scene actually. It doesn't seem like they know each other, so I don't think there's any sort of grand plan, but it couldn't have just been added to the movie randomly, so I'm not sure what to make of it.


10. Note some of the puzzles left unresolved by the end of the film. For example, the omniscient voice that talks to Cole and the homeless man that tells him the scientists track him through his teeth. Venture an interpretation of a puzzling aspect of the film. Is it possible, for example, that James Cole is insane and just hearing voices?

I think Cole could definitely have some form of mental illness, though I think it would be hard to explain everything that he experiences. In that regard, I might attribute the voices he hears to some form of mental illness, but maintain that the time travel and virus were real.
