Digital Authoritarianism Writing Assignment: Digital Fingerprinting

Article: https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2019/10/31/think-youre-anonymous-online-third-popular-websites-are-fingerprinting-you/

Digital fingerprinting is the process by which a website can identify reoccurring users by asking your computer for metadata that is used to create a profile unique to you. This metadata can include fonts, geographical location, IP address, browser, operating system, and, ironically, whether or not your browser is in incognito mode. One framework for this process, called FingerprintJS, has a demonstration on their website (https://fingerprintjs.com/), which you should definitely check out, and claims to be 99.5% reliable. That means that even if you are in incognito mode, with cookies disabled and all your browser's privacy settings set to as secure as possible, websites can still track you with a high degree of accuracy. Many popular websites use this strategy, primarily to increase the engagement of their advertisements, such as airbnb.com, allrecipes.com, imdb.com, norton.com (yes, the privacy company), nytimes.com, weather.gov, and yahoo.com, just to name a few.
The Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) is, in my mind, one of the most egregious examples of just how little our society cares about our own privacy. Passed in 1977 as a way for the U.S. intelligence agencies to collect data regarding espionage and terrorism, it has turned into an incredibly invasive method for the government to monitor... everyone really. It was first thought of in investigations into Nixon's monitoring of political and social parties, and was largely written in closed door meetings between members of the Justice Department and legislators. The whole point of this act was to see just how far the intelligence community could go with their surveillance activities before someone noticed. No one did for a whole twenty-eight years, and then the New York Times published an article on the NSA's warrantless wiretapping of the American public, which had been going on since 2002 (arguably since 2000, so actually before 9/11). The original act meant that either the president or specific courts had to approve the monitoring of groups or individuals, and that the people being monitored had to be associated with a foreign power or a terrorist organization. However, the act has been HEAVILY modified. The Protect America Act of 2007, signed into law by President Bush, reformed FISA to ease its restrictions on who they could monitor. Under the new act, any communications which begin or end in a foreign country can be wiretapped by the government without any oversight from the FISA Court. Additionally, the definition of "electronic surveillance" (which was what FISA was originally built on), was changed to ONLY include domestic-to-domestic communications. This can be applied very, very broadly. The problem, or one of them, is that in order to get data on those specific people or groups, agencies like the NSA often just collect data on thousands of people who happen to use the same companies as those targets. For example, if the NSA wanted to monitor someone who they though might be using Google products, they would just get the data from a massive section of people who use Google products. They don't need a warrant to do this, and can essentially keep all of that data for as long as they see fit. There is very, very little oversight. Any attempts, even from inside the government, to restrict this power have been deflected, obfuscated, or otherwise dismissed, often with the argument that any discussion about the act could reveal state secrets. The question isn't can the government access your data, it's how much data do they already have.
