Ben Hammond
Ms. Sarmiento
Psych Realism, Period 4
19 August 2020

  In the first movie of the Dark Knight trilogy, Bruce Wayne is clearly presented as the superficial mask to the underlying character of Batman. A character close to Bruce but increasingly distanced as he became obsessed with the character of Batman at one point even says that Bruce Wayne is simply the mask Batman wears to blend into society. While Bruce percieves a distance bewteen himself and the Batman character, he is an unreliable narrator who views his world through a lense distorted by his loss and the desire to somehow balance the scales of justice, and those closest to him eventually realize that his perceptions of the world forced him to adopt the Batman as his real self and Bruce Wayne as his character. Indeed, the contrast between his repeated assurals that he remains Bruce Wayne with the character of Batman and the fact that the vast majority of the movie shows him as Batman first and foremost reveals the depth of his obsession and delusion. Not delusion as to whether or not he is in fact helping (which is another issue entirely), but the delusion that he remains Bruce Wayne. Additionally, that the argument one of the acedemics makes is that Bruce Wayne has to be his real self because otherwise it wouldn't make a good story shows that the delusion Batman exists in is all the more powerful because it is one which is pleasant to believe in. His main point was centered around the idea that if Batman was indeed Bruce's true identity, it would mean that he hadn't overcome hardship, he had internalized it. This was, in his mind, in opposition to his view of Batman as a hero and as a character worthy of praise. But I think this not only misses the point, it buys into Batman's own delusion. Batman is not a hero, though he is heroic, and he does not overcome hardship; he uses it as the fuel to pursue his desire for justice. To reduce Batman to the facile idea of the perfect hero who overcomes all hardship and rights the wrongs of the world is to ignore the essential aspects of his story: his imperfection, his struggle with loss and strife, and his ultimate inability to resolve his trauma in spite of his heroic actions. Because what makes Batman unqiue is that he is not a hero; he is someone who experienced loss and continues to deal with it, and I think it is that fragility that draws people to his character, not his heroism.

  The two villains I found most interesting were the Joker and the Pengiun, as they represent very interesting social responses to injustice, acceptance in the form of anarchy and greed in the form of acceptance. The Joker, who is diagnosed as a psychopath, responds to the idea of injustice with acceptance not for any particular reason other than to propagate it (though in some versions his behaviour is explained as a response to the injustice he experienced). I find the idea of psychopathy fascinating as it is essentially an inverse of everything we deem to be "humanity": compassion, empathy, the ability to form relationships, and some sense of right and wrong. I also find the Joker interesting because he shows one version of the acceptance of injustice: the propagation of it. The Penguin, however, is fully sane, and is simply the immoral extreme of capitalism and bureaucracy. His response to injustice to is use it to benefit himself through illegal activity. He is especially interesting to me because I feel like his character is oddly realistic and familiar, especially in today's world.