Demian ch 2 Discussion Board
(https://app.schoology.com/course/2692284174/materials/discussion/view/2829128419)

Lay out how you personally have been raised in and affected by religion, and to what extent. What does this mean to you? How does it matter to you? Has it shaped you at all, and how so?
Detail how attending O'Dowd has affected this. Have you become more or less religious, as a result? Has the Catholic teaching impacted you at all, in either direction, and to what extent. Why?

My (immediate) family has never been religious or spiritual. My mum and my stepdad are both scientists, and as a result of their willingness to share what they were working on we all had a pretty good grasp of science in general when we were still young. This, and the fact that none of my four parents are religious, meant that we all eventually realized we were more aethiest than agnostic. I don't think about it that much, because for me my view on religion comes from my general world view (optimistically nihilistic), not the other way around. In general, I think that my parents gave me explanations for how things work, which I haven't found any reasons to not believe, and then my own opinions I developed later led me to think about why things work. 
Being at O'Dowd hasn't really changed this much, but it has been good to get a better understanding of catholicism, as well as religion as a whole. While I wouldn't say I've become less religious, I've definitely become more sure of my (dis)belief now that I know more about religion itself. I think that it's important to know both sides to an argument before having a firm stance on an issue, and considering I haven't changed my mind on the matter now that I do, I doubt I will in the future. To me the point of belief systems is to explain how things happen, and the choice between several is just the decision as to which one provides a more cohesive explanation. With that in mind, religions just don't hold up for me. I realize there are many other reasons why people gravitate towards religion - comfort, tradition, a sense of purpose - but I've never found any of those particularly compelling.