Demian ch 3

-- Summary

Several years have passed, and Sinclair has had few interactions with Demian (or Kromer). He spends this time trying to keep to the side of his parents and sisters, but the onset of puberty makes him feel distanced from this "good" world. He eventually begins to talk to Demian more, this time in the confirmation school they both are attending. Demian continues to tell Sinclair his interpretations of the biblical stories, and Sinclair eventually values the conversation with Demain more than the actual school lessons. These conversations culminate in Demian's explanation of his idea that the world is artificially split between good and evil; god and the devil, and that people need to choose for themselves what they should and shouldn't do, which directly connects to Sinclair's feelings of a divided world.

-- Questions

1. In the reading, Sinclair describes the feeling of being "half a child," partially between the two realms of life, the worlds of light and dark, the separate paths of respecting what is permitted and forbidden and "standing on your own feet." How do you relate with this feeling? How in your life do you feel this struggle, and how does it affect you?

While I don't necessarily feel a pull bewteen worlds of light and dark, I've always felt pulled towards nature, which also results in a pull away from everything else. It's always been hard to explain (probably because I've never really tried to), but unless I'm alone in the middle of nowhere I always have a small feeling that something isn't quite right. I've always appreciated this feeling to some extent, because I think there have been times where that need to just sort of get away from everything and immerse myself in that uncaring wilderness was the only thing that got me through some difficult situations. I suppose it's always been a constant force, and that consistency is a comforting and useful way to get my bearing. My attitude toward it has (for the most part) been that I'll do what I need to do to function in society, and once I've finished what's expected of me I'll leave to do what I want to do, at least for a while. There's definitely a kind of tension there, because I don't think I'll ever be able to function in just one of those worlds, either in normalcy or in nature.

2. Detail an event or period of time in your life when you felt truly alone. What emotions came with this? Was it all bad? Did you sense any freedom in it, any benefit at all? Or was it all awful for you? Why do you think so? How do you see it now, with the benefit of some hindsight?

While there haven't necessarily been any times in my life (that I can remember) where I have been particularly alone, a few trips that my family and I took to Death Valley stand out to me as some of the first times when I was made very aware of my own insignificance. There was one time when we were driving across the valley itself to look at some abandoned mines, and I looked around and noticed that not only was there nothing else around for as far as I could see, but we had been driving for maybe half an hour in a straight line and the view almost hadn't changed. That realization of the sheer scale of this one valley struck me, and I think some of it has stuck with me. It certainly wasn't a bad feeling, in fact the primary emotion I remember feeling was awe, not loneliness. There was a sense of freedom, though perhaps in the more existentialist way of thinking, and a feeling of gratitude that I was able to see something like that. I don't feel super lonely when I'm actually alone, because those situations often come with opportunities to reflect and appreciate.