Demain ch 5

-- Summary

In chapter five, Sinclair finds a mysterious note in a textbook (from Demian) which gives an analysis of the painting Sinclair gave to Demain. In it is the name Abraxas, which Sinclair eventually learns is the name for a god/devil entity. Fascinated by the renewal of this way of thinking, Demain just sort of aimlessly wanders around for awhile. One night he hears organ music coming from a church, and sits there listening to it for more than an hour. A few days (weeks?) later he sees the organist and follows him into a bar, whereupon they have a conversation about Abraxas (sort of). They continue to meet every once in a while, the last time mentioned in the chapter being a time where they look at a fire for a while. These odd, short conversations with Pistorius (that's his name), weird as they may be, help form Demian's views.

-- Questions

1. On page 83, Sinclair narrates: "I wanted only to try to live in accord with the promptings which came from my true self. Why was that so very difficult?" How do you relate to this sentiment. Do you agree? If so, what do you feel stands in your way? Why is it so difficult? If you don't, why not? Why does this seem easier for you, in your opinion? Or, is that something you've never even really thought or worried about? Why not, do you think?

I've sort of felt this sentiment, though for me it more often manifests in the form of a lack of direct promptings, which I suppose is its own challenge. The main force I feel is just the desire to create or do something which is in some way useful, but I think that that is such a general idea that it's almost the default. While there isn't actually much that stands in the way of my doing that, I've always found it difficult to just focus on. With so many distractions it's almost always easier to just find something else to do, because any act of creation, however small, is going to require more effort than, say, reading or watching youtube. With that in mind though, I've been making more of an effort recently to just make something on a regular basis. I've found that after a while it gets just a bit easier, so I would say that the only thing getting in my (and I assume others') way is a lack of practice. While that is an unfortunate catch 22, it does at at least mean that the self-imposed barrier of concentration is something which can be improved.

2. Tell me about a moment in your life when you became AWARE of something, in the way Pistorious explains on page 92. When did a moment of true recognition occur for you, in a manner that made you genuinely conscious of something that was happening around and/or within you. It can be something about your own life, something about someone you love but never really knew until said moment, or it can be something about the greate environment you dwell in. Regardless of which, detail for me the specifics of that moment, and the impact of the realization that come from it, in terms of how you saw yourself, your loved one, or your world as a whole.

While I can't put into words exactly what I became aware of, the moment that stands out the most for me in terms of realization was in the middle of a school science trip backpacking in Yosemite. It was the third day of hiking, and after a pretty rough start (1,400 ft of elevation gain over 8 miles with way too much gear, then setting up camp in freezing slush rain on the first day) we were sort of getting the hang of things. It was towards the end of the day, and we were setting up camp for the night at 10,000 feet. We all finished early, so we all were just sort of allowed to wander off. I walked up an incline near our camp to get a better view of the surroundings, and I remember struggling to catch my breath while looking at the view. We were essentially camping on the top of a mountain, and the visibility probably stretched for fifty miles in all directions, giving us an unobstructed view of Yosemite, without a single building in sight. I think that's one of the purest memories of awareness and freedom that I have, and while I'm not sure what I became aware of, it sticks out to me as important.