The Serial Killer Entertainment Industry in America: A very weird phenomenon

Watch the attached videos, and then answer the following questions authentically, with full effort and each being a minimum of 150 words:

1. On a scale of 1 - 10, where would you gauge your level of interest in serial killers? (Be honest; this is not a trap.) More specifically, where was it BEFORE we began this unit, and where is it now? If there has been a change, to what do attribute that and why? If there hasn't been, why do you think that is?

I would gauge my interest of serial killers at a 3 before this unit, and maybe a 3.5 now. I think that slight increase is mostly due to the fact that my newly-increased knowledge of serial killers has lead to my having more questions about them, which has increased my interest in them. However, my overall interest in serial killers is still relatively low overall. I don't think I've ever had a particularly large interest in serial killers, which I'm not sure is attributable to any particular reason; I'm just not super interested in them. In this unit my interest has been variable between the serial killer's we've talked about, and though I find the character Dr. Lecter quite interesting, I think that is more due to his character and personality in general, rather than his being a serial killer. He's just super odd and unsettling, which seems to be independent from his killing.

2. Since learning about serial killers, in terms of percentage, I want you to HONESTLY assess how much of your time spent thinking about this subject has included reflections on the VICTIMS and/or their FAMILIES/FRIENDS, those left behind with the knowledge of what was done to their loved one. (No judgment, from me to you or you to yourself here; it's OK.) Why do you think that is? Do you think you're protecting yourself from something? What might that be? Do you think your gender or race is playing into it at all? Why or why not?

While it's difficult to calculate a percentage of how much of my time thinking about this subject has been focused on the victims, as I'm not sure how much time I spend thinking about this in general, I would conservatively put my estimate at 5-10%. I think that is due to my relatively low interest in serial killers as a whole and the fact that the victims are, in my opinion, the least interesting part of discussion around serial killers; if I'm going to be focused on anything in this unit it's going to be what I find most interesting. It could be that I'm shielding myself from the emotional turmoil and grief which serial killers leave behind through the friends and families of their victims, but I'm not sure there's a way to prove this. My disinterest could also be a defense mechanism due to the fact that as a white person I'm slightly more likely to be killed by a serial killer (as most serial killers kill within their ethnic group, and the U.S. has a white racial majority), but considering I'm also less likely to be in danger for any number of reasons as a white person, I doubt that's the cause of my lack of interest in the victims of serial killers.

3. In the second video, both Kemper and Brudos are presented as two men with SERIOUS mommy issues, in that they felt constantly belittled by them, resulting even in his mother's torture and murder, in the case of Kemper. (Recall his change of course AFTER his murder of her. How did he change?) Think back to Adler for a moment. In what way could this be seen as overcompensation? How do you see Dr. Lecter or Buffalo Bill now, in light of this idea? In what way do you think they might be overcompensating? In the case of Dr. Lecter, specifically, consider his taste for "high" art, architecture, and ummmm.... cuisine, as well as Crawford's assessment of Lecter's "only weakness." (Mention that specifically.)

Both Kemper and Brudos could be analyzed as overcompensating for a feeling of powerlessness instilled in them by their mothers as children, fighting against inferiority complexes by imposing their power on others. I'm not sure how to categorize Dr. Lecter by this metric, because he seems to be portrayed as a pure psychopath as opposed to a sociopath whose lack of empathy comes from trauma and repression. My characterization of Buffalo Bill is also overshadowed by the fact that I've watched the movie, and so have some idea about his background and how he very easily fits into that model of repression and overcompensation. If I had to analyze Dr. Lecter through this lens of overcompensation I would guess that his penchant for "high" culture and his "only weakness", the need to feel smarter than everyone, is perhaps due to some form of inferiority complex, though I couldn't guess what caused it. 
