Serial Killer Case Study: Jeffrey Dahmer

Respond to the following questions thoughtfully, and with detailed paraphrased references to the text, specifically in Ch 12.

1. What characteristics does Dahmer seem to share with Buffalo Bill, and what about Dahmer's reasoning and motivations may possibly help us understand Buffalo Bill better? (Include the specific TYPE of serial killer Dahmer was. You should know where to find that.)

Dahmer (who seems to be a psychopathic power/control/lust killer) appears to share with Buffalo Bill a decent amount of intelligence, because they both choose their victims carefully and dispose of the bodies in a way which makes identification difficult, and both clearly get satisfaction from the killing. Dahmer's primary motivation, a feeling of power, may also factor into the thinking of Buffalo Bill.

2. Early on, Dahmer speaks of "depersonalizing a person," of making them an object. Why is this a key and almost necessary trait for serial killers?

Depersonalization of the victims is a key trait for serial killers because killing is a very unnatural act for the human psyche, and to overcome this internal struggle a serial killer (who has killed at least three people), must disconnect their victims from their own humanity.

3. Is Dahmer an "organized" or "disorganized" serial killer? Make sure to explain why, referencing aspects of the video.

Dahmer is pretty clearly an organized serial killer. Though he said that the first person he killed was almost accidental, his subsequent kills were quite thought-out; he even said he prepared sleeping medication to slip into his victims' drinks ahead of time. 

4. He shares the act of cannibalism with Dr. Lecter. In your opinion, is this pretty much all he shares? Is he at all otherwise similar? Why or why not? (Make sure to include specific references to both the character and Dahmer)

I think it's difficult to tell, but my first thought it that yes, cannibalism is essentially all they share. We have little explanation of why Lecter killed people (other than with the flutist, who he was simply tired of listening to), only that he did so efficiently and with absolutely no passion (the story of him breaking a nurse's jaw to eat her tongue without his heart rate going above 80 bpm comes to mind). His dispassionate approach toward killing seems to be significantly at odds with Dahmer's motives of power and lust. Dahmer very clearly states that he felt totally controlled by his urges, and in my mind self-control is one of Dr. Lecter's primary characteristics. Though further insight into Lecter's history may show otherwise, so far he and Dahmer are, in my opinion, fundamentally different.
