In Thomas Harris' "The Silence of the Lambs", Clarice Starling's behaviour is highly reflective of Adler's theories of psychoanalysis, from her responses to trauma and stress to her gravitation toward Adler's ideas of social interest.
When faced with old traumas and new pressures, Starling consistently relies on behaviours matching those of Adler's concept of the safeguarding tactic of idealization as well as his idea of fictional finalism. Starling, talking to Dr. Lecter in an attempt to obtain information from him, describes an early childhood trauma, "'What woke you up? Did you dream? What was it?' 'I woke up and heard the lambs screaming. I woke up in the dark and the lambs were screaming.' 'They were slaughtering the spring lambs?' 'Yes.' 'What did you do?' I couldn't do anything for them. I was just a---' 'What did you do with the horse?'" (229-230). This quick, halting back and forth between Starling and Dr. Lecter is a deep insight into Starling's psyche, and reveals the origin of many of her drives. The symbolism of the spring lambs as purity and innocence, and their inevitable death, show this moment to be a tipping point in Starling's life, a focus which would irreversibly shape her character. Starling as a young child, when faced with her own inability to help against a perceived evil and death of purity, turns to her horse and escapes with it, saving it from the same fate. This behaviour was the start of a pattern for Starling, and of her version of fictional finalism: a belief that if she can continue to save people and do good, she can overcome that early trauma of the screaming lambs. Toward the end of the novel Dr. Lecter, ever the insightful psychiatrist, sends a letter to Starling asking her a question: "Well, Clarice, have the lambs stopped screaming? [...] I won't be surprised if the answer is yes and no. The lambs will stop for now. But, Clarice, you judge yourself with all the mercy of the dungeon scales at Threave; you'll have to earn it again and again, the blessed silence. Because it's the plight that drives you, seeing the plight, and the plight will not end, ever" (366). As Dr. Lecter so eloquently puts, Starling is perhaps trapped in her own sense of fictional finalism, one which holds her to impossible standards. She seeks to right something which can never be changed, her past, and in doing so can never truly be content. Though her behaviours may be helpful, saving the life of Catherine, her motivations are decidedly more neurotic than they first seem. This double-edged sword of her admirable actions and work ethic shows itself through the metaphor of screaming lambs, a disturbing contradiction in tone. Lambs, so often symbols of innocence, are in some way made disturbing by their seemingly tortured state. Starling's actions, while heroic, are certainly driven by her own fictional finalism. While Adler maintains that fictional finalism are not necessarily harmful if they can be changed, Starling's fictional fatalism has lasted since her childhood, and, as Dr. Lecter puts, "the plight will not end, ever".
Though Starling may have neuroses as a result of childhood trauma, she still conforms to Adler's theory of social interest. One of her most constant anchors to normalcy, Starling's friend Ardelia Mapp keeps her grounded when faced with the stress of her work. After a stressful experience at the asylum, Starling reflects on Mapp's ability to keep her stable: "Of the two brightest people Starling knew, one was also the steadiest person she knew and the other was the most frightening. Starling hoped that gave her some balance in her acquaintance" (276). The steadiness that Mapp provides Starling through their friendship is incredibly important to counter the mental and emotional instability which Starling faces as a result of her work. Her friendship with Mapp, and the assistance they provide each other, shows that Starling is capable of Adler's notion of social interest; the ability to work toward greater goals with others. The novel concludes with Starling finally resting after her traumatic experiences, sleeping peacefully in a beach house on the Chesapeake shore: "Additional mounds beneath the covers may or may not be Noble Pilcher, it is impossible to determine in the ambient light. But the face on the pillow, rosy in the firelight, is certainly that of Clarice Starling, and she sleeps deeply, sweetly, in the silence of the lambs" (367). Starling, finally able to sleep with herself after her saving of Catherine, is at last at peace. Her acceptance of Pilcher's offer to get away from the stress of her work shows a return to some sense of normalcy, and the softer, almost soothing description of the house reinforces that idea of peaceful rest. The description of Starling's face as "rosy" also marks a return to a part of the innocence she lost as a child when the lambs were killed, through that color's connection to innocence and youth. Starling fits Adler's theories of the psyche and personal development, not only through her neurosis and management of trauma but also in her friendships and recovery.
