Names: Michela Seronello, Patrick Hickey, Harrison Jenkins, Ben Hammond

1. Which patient populations may not be able to give informed consent? Should these populations be excluded from clinical trials? Why or why not?

There are certain populations that may not be able to give informed consent, such as infants and people suffering from mental disabilities. I think these groups should be excluded from clinical trials because they are unable to understand the situation fully, and may not be fully aware of the risks that the trial could put them in. They also might not fully understand all of their diagnosis and treatment options, and therefore would not be able to give informed consent.


2. Is the promise of free medical care for participation in a trial inherently coercive? To decrease the potential for unintended coercion, should trials be limited to patients who have ready access to medical care?

Allowing people who don’t have medical care to have trials can be helpful, but also risky. While it seems like free healthcare to the participants, it could just as easily be harmful to them. The point of the trial is to verify the drugs safety and effectiveness and while in this trial proved it worked, it could have left the participants with other long lasting side effects that would need medical attention to treat. On the other hand, the participants don’t have access to the drug in Russia anymore because it is sold only in America meaning the people that got the drug passed aren’t able to buy the drug for themselves in any capacity. This isn’t fair for these people who need the drug but no longer have access to it and have no health care that can get the drug for them. 


3. What is necessary for a patient to know going into this or any clinical trial? Can we consider it truly “informed” consent if the patient does not understand the science? Do participants need to understand how a drug works in order to consent to taking the drug? What responsibilities do physicians have to ensure that their patients are well-informed?

It is necessary for a patient to have a foundation-level understanding of how a drug works, and so, by extension, some understanding of basic biology. Without the ability to understand what the consequences of a drug might be there cannot be fully informed consent. With that in mind, the responsibility of the physician to inform their patient becomes ever more important. The role of the physician is, then, not only to administer the drug but also to ensure that their patient has at least a basic level of understanding of the mechanisms by which a drug operates and its possible side effects. 


4. What, if anything, is owed to the participants of the trial? Is it fair for Rx to cease to provide this successful treatment to those who helped them get it approved for sale?

Seeing as though the  participation of participants in the clinical trials was critical to the drug being allowed to be sold in the first place, it seems as fair compensation to continue to pay for their healthcare. This would also incentivise companies like Rx to not just target people in dire need of health because they are more desperate and would ensure that those who do at least take good care of the participants they choose. Overall, no, it is not fair to give the participants healthcare during the trials just to strip it away once the trials are over.
