Dehumanizing Questions

1. What causes humans to treat one another with disrespect
A fear of the unknown or unusual is a primary cause of disrespect.

2. Who is at fault
When someone is disrespectful, they are at fault.

3. Is it the default or an outlier
I think it is the default.

4. Who gains
Nobody gains anything by being disrespectful.

5. If people can be taught to hate, can they be taught to love
Yes, but it is far more difficult.

6. Share one way humans have been kind
Someone helped me solve a problem over the weekend.

7. What hope can we have as a society
At least a good portion of the population will likely die within the next century or so when global warming catches up with us. Hopefully that'll change the way any future societies interact.

8. How can people realize we are more alike than different, and how can we do this effectively
Obviously there is a slight correlation between people who refuse to recognize that people are all alike and people who refuse to believe any sort of science, but talking about the similarity between the genetic makeup of people is interesting.

9. When is it stated that there has been a lot of progress in the way we treat each other. What comes to mind, and give and example
The fact that we're having this discussion probably wouldn't have happened a hundred years ago, which is a pretty good sign of progress.

10. Is there ever a time when dehumanizing someone is ever acceptable because it has some good outcome
Yes, but that doesn't mean we don't in hindsight regret it. Xenophobia has always been used to bring communities together, but it often has negative consequences.


Person assignment (Cesar Chavez)

1. What do you know about them
They were a civil rights activist who fought for the right of Latino farmworkers, especially in California.

2. Look up 3 things about them
He argued for peaceful protests and boycotting, formed the National Farmworkers Association, and brought attention to unjust work conditions.

3. How did this one person change things
With the support of thousand of consumers and farmworkers, Cesar Chavez succesfully improved labor laws and regulations for the treatment of laborers.