1. What does it mean to DEHUMANIZE someone? HOW can this come about?
Mum: I think it means to kind of globally stereotype a group which makes them all one thing, so that people don't have their own characteristics, and so then it becomes harder to empathize with them. Well I think that the military uses it for training their soldiers, because to kill someone you have to think of them as less than human, and I think the media does it by only showing one side of a community of people or only showing certain groups in certain lights.

Toby: Dehumanization is removing someone's human qualities and treating them as if they are not human. It generally comes from ignorance, when a more priveledged meets a less privledged group of people and they interpret that as the others being lesser.

2. What do you believe is an example of DEHUMANIZATION in our world today (can be past)? How has this dehumanized this person or group?
Mum: I think that the media for a long time has dehumanized African Americans in the United states, only showing young black men through the lense of criminality and only showing negative depcitions in general. I think that for people who live in a place where they're not exposed to diversity in their everday lives, places where you can have workplaces and environments where there are no African Americans, the only place where people get their information, even subconsciously, about African Americans is through those dehumanizing representations.

Toby: The treatment of immagrants on the mexican american border. ICE has almost treated them as pests, instead of people seeking asylums and a better life, keeping the in containment camps for years.

3. What is an example of DEHUMANIZATION in Bioethics (medical field) that has taken place in our work today or in the past? How has this dehumanized this person or group?
Mum: I think that an example is that when doctors are trained to diagnose people, they're given these specific scales to use for African American people, and I think that in disease research most of the data come from white poeple, I think like 90% of all the genetic data in file banks is caucasian, so researchers don't even have access to a wider range of information, and then those people left out don't get included in the research.

Toby: Wasn't there that thing that happened? Oh, what was that powerplant that killed a bunch of people (he trails off here and asks for the next questions)

4. Now share ONE example or person who has given us PROGRESS in either area and HOW does this give us hope?
Mum: I don't know their names, but I think that the Black Lives Matter movement has been a huge force of progress, even if it's not just one person, and I've seen researchers teaching students who raise these sort of issues, so I think that the first step in making changes to things like that which are embedded in a structure is calling it out.

Toby: Probably Barack Obama, because by passing the affordable care act he brought healthcare to the aforementioned groups who would have otherwise been unable to access it. It's a good reminder that people in power actually have the power to do good.
