Euthanasia Interview

1. What is your view on euthanasia in general? Explain briefly.
Of people? I think that it should be legal as long as there is suffering and there is no hope for change in that.

2. What has influenced your position on it?
Hmmm, um, seeing friends and family who had elderly family members who have had a bad quality of life but have just had to endure it because there was no other option.

3. Do you remember anything about the Terri Schiavo case (1990-2015)? If so, what do you remember? (Let them know what YOU know!)
I remember that her family... she was a child? She had a degenerative disease? And her family was asking for permission...? (We discussed it) I think that it should be reviewed by multiple doctors, and I don't think the spouse should have that sole decision making power. 

4. Do you know if California has legalized euthanasia?
They don't, I think. (She looked it up) Oh, it is legal; it was legalized in 2016.

5. In your view, WHO can decide when this action is allowed? If the person is unable to do so, WHO should decide and why? Or is this not acceptable in any way?
Well ideally it should be family members, and/or multiple doctors who agreed that there was no other option and that that was okay. I think that multiple people should always have to review it: doctors and family members if possible. Maybe parents, spouse, siblings, depending on who is available (as well as doctors). I think that in general people should be asked ahead of time what they would want to happen. If they made that mandatory to ask then they would know. 

6. Do you see anything positive about this practice? Anything negative?
I think positive is that it reduces people's suffering, and it reduces the financial burden of family members in the hospital. The cons are just trusting people to make the right decision.

7. Do you think this is something which should be made legal (or illegal) on a federal level, or do you think that this decision should be left to the states?
I think it should be left to the states.

8. (For the Student!) After asking your parent(s), what did you learn or find out about him/her? Was this difficult to discuss? Explain briefly.
I learned that my mum's opinions on this match up pretty closely with my own (which I suppose is to be expected). It wasn't difficult to discuss, and was an interesting conversation in general.
