"I, Robot" Movie Questions

1. Does the fact that Sonny and the other robots have human-like faces make us see them as more like persons? i.e. if they were standard, desk-top computers with the same internal functioning as the robots in the film would there be the same mistake or projection of ascribing them personhood? In other words are we easily fooled by appearances? (2 pts)

I think we are absolutely easily fooled by appearances. People are hard wired to identify with anything even slightly human-like, and even with things that are in no way similar to us. While this connection is obviously increased by the humanoid appearance of the robots (barring, of course, the uncanny valley effect), people can empathize with literally anything. 

2. VIKI argues that humans are endangering the planet due to our combination of rationality and emotion, thus a more rational approach is needed to save us. She claims that humans need to be taken care of – the creation protecting the creator. Do you think our irrational behavior needs some kind of rational control to save us from ourselves? (2 pts)

While I agree with her sentiment that humans endanger the planet and thus themselves through our "emotion" (I think stupidity or greed might be more accurate though), I don't think we should be saved by some external force. If we can't survive on our own by getting our... mess... together, we weren't really going to last that long as a species anyway.

3. Why does the Doctor think the Three Laws will eventually lead to revolution? Are his reasons convincing? (2 pts)

First of all, the "Three Laws" are just Asimov's three laws, and as such they are designed to be flawed. All of Asimov's stories surrounding these laws are written to show that there is no easy way to safeguard against AI, and to ridicule the notion of a short and simple list of laws which would try and do so. With this in mind, of course the Doctor's reasons are convincing; they've been discussed science fiction writers and computer scientists for the past 78 years.

4. For society in general, do you think it is better or worse or the same that we are incrementally becoming more dependent upon technology of all types? (It seems obvious that we seem to be losing our ability to do mathematics without calculators; we depend on electronic technology for academic research and paper writing, smart phones for directions, etc.) What are the advantages and disadvantages of such reliance? (2 pts)

I don't necessarily think that a dependence on technology is good or bad, but I think that a lack of understanding and respect of it is problematic; I don't think that it's bad that most people don't know how to hunt for food with a bow and arrow, but I do think that a learned ignorance of why we don't have to know that is. Technology has always been and will always be useful by definition, but I think that purposeful ignorance of how our technology works (which, for the record, I do not think is a modern behaviour) is certainly worthy of concern.

5. If Sonny has feelings—fear, anger, desire to live—does this give him moral considerability or rights? If so, what sort? Why? What would be the argument for not “decommissioning” (i.e. killing) him? (2 pts)

I think it does, and I think it does because I think it does. Our only real test of conciousness is personal opinion, which is simply based on emotion. The character of Sonny seemed to me as concious as any of the other characters, and so I would give him moral considerability. As such, the argument for not killing him is the same as that for any other person: it doesn't seem right.

6. Sonny finds himself not knowing what to do after his purpose was revealed and completed. Spooner tells him that’s what it means to be free. Explain. (2 pts)

Freedom is the ability to choose one's purpose, and as such Sonny is left at the end of the movie with ability to choose the path of his life, along with the responsibility that that entails.

7. What is the moral of the story? (2 pts)

People can be dumb, but we've made it this far so we must have done something right? 

8. Consider Spooner’s disdain for the robots, and his use of derisive epithets like ‘toaster’ and ‘vacuum cleaner.’ He is devaluing the robots, especially Sonny, who appears in many ways human. Would it be possible for him to dehumanize a machine? Please reference at least THREE of Devine’s seven aspects of personhood. Please underline the aspects when you write them down. (6 pts)

I think that it is possible for Spooner to dehumanize Sonny, because he can insult and undermine some of the core aspects to personhood: _the freedom of choice_, _existence in relationships_, and _personal knowledge_. Spooner frequently questioned Sonny's capability for all three of those aspects, and in doing so took away any sense he had of Sonny's personhood.