Life Issues Questions

While watching the video clip on Beginning of Life Issues, please reply to the following questions.

1. What is “collaborative reproduction?”
Collaborative reproduction is the term Dr. Maggie Little gave to the behaviour of creating a child through multiple people and processes, such as having a surrogate mother and / or sperm donor.

2. What is a positive and a negative of “collaborative reproduction?”
While collaborative reproduction allows people who may have been otherwise biologically unable to conceive a child, it also raises a multitude of edge cases and both moral and legal issues.

3. What was the issue with the California couple with the surrogate having twins? What is the LEGAL challenge here for both sides?
The issue was that the couple didn't want twins, and wrote in the contract that if there were twins one had to be aborted, and where there were twins the surrogate didn't want to abort one because it was a bit later than they had specified. The couple then pulled out of the contract, leading to a legal battle over who had the right to chose the adoptive parents of the twins. The legal issues range from is that sort of contract actually enforceable to the legality of the couple's right to be the twins' parents.

4. What is an ETHICAL issue in this situation with the California couple?
Well to start, neither group wanted the twins, which is seems odd. Additionally, the whole issue of surrogate birth raises a lot of issues, primarily due to the fact that both parties have to trust each other.

5. Do you agree or disagree with the speaker that abortion is one of the most polarizing topics in Bioethics? Explain briefly.
I do, because she didn't say it is *the* most polarizing issue, and if it weren't so polarizing we would talk about it far less often.

6. What does the speaker say about the two extremes and what is in the middle?
She said that the two extremes are those who agree with their viewpoints without exceptions, and that most people are somewhere slightly in the middle; there are exeptions to most people's viewpoints.

7. What was interesting about the conference she attended?
The seating arrangement was interesting because it seemed like such a simple way to create good conversation.

8. What did the speaker share that both sides have in common?
Both sides are (for the most part) decent people, and both sides want to be understood.

9. After watching this video, what is a “take away” for you and why?
I found the point that someone made during the conference interesting, that everyone should explain why the other peoples' opinions scare them, because I think it, for the most part, cuts to the heart of most "moral" discussions.

10. Our next topic is “end of life issues” so is there a connection between end of life and beginning of life in your opinion? Explain briefly.
Both are similar in the sense that it's deciding the legality of killing people who sometimes (in the case of end of life; always in the begining of life) can't make decisions for themselves.