Senior Questionnaire Part 1

1. Describe your Anawim Project: where you volunteered, what you did, how many hours you completed, and most importantly, how the experience impacted you. If you went beyond the 100 required hours for graduation, please discuss your motivation to continue doing community service. How did it change you? What did you learn? 

Unfortunately, as a result of the quarantine I was unable to do my Anawim project. I had been planning on working at the Mosaic camp over spring break and in time for the end of my peace and justice class, but after quarantine started I was unable to do so. While I can't speak for how the Anawim project impacted me, I can speak as to how the friends project impacted me, as I did those hours at Mosaic, where I was intending on also doing my Anawim project. It was an incredibly informative experience for me, as I spent large portions of my childhood summers in camps similar to Mosaic and I found it very rewarding to be sharing those experiences with kids who were the age I was when I was in camps. While I learned a few things I didn't necessarily want to experience, like how to deal with kids with a stomach bug at five in the morning, I also learned just how important it is that kids learn how to deal with conflict in constructive ways early on.

2. Describe how you have spent your summers since summer before 9th grade.  What was memorable about those experiences?

When I was younger my summers were spent either in summer camps or with family in Australia. Out of the camps I went to I think Sarah's Science camp had the largest impact on me, and though my mum was a scientist, I think those camps were where my loves of exploration and discovery were cemented for me. The rest of my summers were usually spent in Australia with our family. My dad moved to the U.S. from Australia when he was 21, and we still have a lot of family there (three uncles and nine cousins). We try and go every year, and I think those experiences were incredibly formative for me. Not only was it a time to connect to family, but I think that the trips themselves gave me a lot of good habits. The flight alone is fourteen hours, and considering I first went to Australia when I was eight months old (and then more or less every year after) I think that those flights were very good practice for knowing how to entertain myself, from reading to drawing to even just sleeping.

3. Describe a challenge of personal significance you have faced. How or what have you learned from it?

I think the greatest personal challenge I've faced was at the end of last year. That time was a shockingly bad for me as the result of several factors, from the quarantine to difficult classes, which compounded with depression to produce the hardest month or so I've ever experienced. When constantly thinking about some really painful questions, it became increasingly difficult to focus on school. The end of school helped, but I ended up ignoring the issue throughout most of summer. A few weeks before school started I began to try and come up with ways to prevent that from happening again, so we'll see how that goes. I've certainly learned a lot about myself reflecting on that time, but we have yet to see whether or not that knowledge actually helps.

4. Describe your family. How do you see your place or role within it? 

Hoo boy. I'll stick with immediate family, because anything beyond that would take far too long to explain. My parents got divorced when I pretty young, and they've both remarried. I have two step-parents, who each have two children. All in all, I have a stepbrother and sister from dad's side, and two stepbrothers from my mum's side. We all get along pretty well, and I've know them for the majority of my life at this point. I'm not sure I have a place or role in my family, other than maybe someone who can help format an excel sheet? I'm pretty quiet by nature, so I generally don't have (or want) much of a say in family dynamics, and I think as a result of that I'm generally seen as a neutral party.