The exchange between Dr. Lecter and Starling in Ch. 25 can, in large part, be seen strictly as a battle of defense mechanisms. The game being played essentially comes down to who can crack their opponent's, and keep their opponent from cracking their's, as a means of securing each player's ultimate objective (i.e. what they want in that moment above all else). With this in mind, perform the following three step assignment in class today:

defense mechanisms:
denial
projection
turning against the self
sublimation
regression
rationalization
intellectualization
reaction formation
displacement
fantasy
suppression
regression
withdrawal
dissociation

(Note that this assignment doesn't just require and understanding of the text, but also the subtext. It's not just about what the character is SAYING, it's about why they're saying it and why what they're saying might not overtly indicate that at all, meaning your textual analysis will need to go a bit deeper than usual.)


1. In no less than 100 words, lay out a) what you think is Lecter's ultimate objective in the exchange, and b) what defense mechanism he is primarily using to keep Starling from getting to close to it (or some deeper insecurity she can exploit). Provide one piece of cited evidence to support one of your claims, and paraphrase the text accurately - and with detail - to support your other claim. (You can pick which claim gets which support.)

I think that Lecter's primary goal is to regain a sense of freedom. Though he doesn't directly say this while talking to Starling in chapter twenty five, he had previously made it clear that he wanted a view, as opposed to the oppressive cell he currently occupied. Lecter seems to use intellectualization as a defense mechanism to prevent Starling from seeing that goal, as he barely mentions that previous wish, instead sarcastically referring to the island which Starling offers to him as a reward for his cooperation as "charming", after revealing its full name: "The Plum Island Animal Disease Center" (162).


2. In no less than 100 words, lay out a) what you think is Starling's ultimate objective in the exchange, and b) what defense mechanism she is primarily using to keep Lecter from getting to close to it (or some deeper insecurity he can exploit). Provide one piece of cited evidence to support one of your claims, and paraphrase the text accurately - and with detail - to support your other claim. (You can pick which claim gets which support.)

Starling's ultimate goal is clearly to save the life of Catherine, shown through her urgency as she questions Dr. Lecter: "That would be the best, something quick" (168). Her defense mechanism, barely disguised, is sublimation: she puts her anger and urgency into her work. Dr. Lecter himself recognizes this, and after asking her how she manages her rage she simply walks out, holding her notes. This is a reinforcement of Dr. Lecter's analysis, the fact that she holds her notes to her chest shows their importance, and her silence proves that she uses her work as a channel for her anger.

    
3. In this game of ultimate objectives and defense mechanisms, which do you feel came out on top and why? Who was better able to employ their own defense mechanisms, crack the other's, and most secure their ultimate objective? How so? Provide a cited piece of evidence to support your answer. (This last one should be closer to 200 words.)
