TSOTL Journal #1: Our Inferiority Complexes

1. Name and describe for me an aspect of your life in which you felt deeply inferior to others - in such a way that it genuinely affected your self esteem - that you ultimately used as fuel to improve yourself in a healthy manner. How have you legitimately grown, based on responding well to such negative feelings?

While I can't remember any time when I felt so inferior it significantly impacted my self esteem, in middle school I often felt like I understood less than a few of my friends did when it came to computer science, which I think pushed me to learn more. I had one friend who was crazy good at using scratch (one of their projects was featured on the scratch home page), another who was just generally good at programming, and one more who built drones, cannons, 3d printers, and scooters in his spare time. All of my friends were pretty good at tech stuff in general (we were all massive nerds), but there were definitely a few people who were just brilliant at what they did. While I still fit into that group pretty easily (that was the time when I actually felt like I had a super close group of friends), there was a bit of insecurity that I wasn't crazily good at any one thing. I think that certainly pushed me to learn more, practice what I was interested in, and get to that level of being the best (or at least, pretty good) at something within my friend group. 

2. Name and describe for me an aspect of your life in which you felt (or STILL feel) deeply inferior to others - in such a way that it genuinely affected (or affects) your self esteem - that you have NOT responded to in a healthy manner. In what way have you ever overcompensated for this feeling, which has actually made things worse, instead of better? 

I've definitely felt some inferiority recently, as I've been more in contact with online groups which align with my interests. Though I think those groups (most notably the Town of Merveilles) are super useful as resources of enormous knowledge, I think they can also be a bit disheartening as someone who is more or less a beginner to a lot of the topics being discussed. In retrospect that sort of interaction needs a balance between appreciation of other peoples' projects, and work on your own, which I don't think I have (or had, hopefully this is changing soon). In order to compensate for that I was working on lots of little projects and bits and pieces here and there which took time but never added up to a finished "project". To try and balance that out I've been thinking about starting a more long-term project which should help to counteract some of that feeling of inferiority, which I feel is currently effected by my lack of current things to point at and go 'see, I'm working on cool stuff as well'. Hopefully that, as well as acknowledgement of selection bias, will help balance out the vast array of skill which is present.
