Debate - Hitchens vs Craig - Does God Exist


Some reasons Dr. Craig shares in SUPPORT of the existence of God:

1. Why is there a universe?
He argued that there is a universe because it was created by a god.

2. What did he say about a “personal creator?”
He said that god must be a personal creator because that is the only logical choice between an object and a personal mind.

3. What does he say about “randomness” in creation of the universe?
That the chance that the creation was randomly created is so small that it must have been design.

4. What is the moral argument?
The moral argument is that if there were no god there would be no "true" morality, which we can "feel" to be inherently false.

5. What is said about the resurrection of Jesus?
That there is actual evidence for the resurrection which is agreed upon by most scholars. 

6. What is said about he immediate experience of God?
God is an immediate experience independent of logical arguments, and the belief in god in some way validates his existence.

7. Basic points from his conclusion?
In order to argue his point, Hitchens must remove the validity of his arguments and replace them with his own.


Some reasons Christopher Hitchens shares that negate the existence of God?

1. Argument for evolution without any Creator?

2. What does he say about atheists proving that God does not exist?
He says that almost all atheists do not say that they can prove that a god does not exist, simply that there does not need to be one.

3. What does he say mean about ”retrospective evidence?”
That it is a concession made of the need for fact.

4. What does he mean about “fine tuning”
That is another form of pattern seeking with very poor evidence, contrasted with the physicist who are extremely cautious about making concrete claims.


Dr. Craig’s rebuttal:

1. Argument for Atheism:
There's no good argument for atheism, simply agnosticism.

2. Evolution and theism:
Evolution is irrelevant to the debate of theism, scripture can be interpreted in any way, including to support religion. Additionally, the evolution of humanity is so improbable that it can be taken as proof of god.

3. Timing of Christ’s coming:
Most people were born after Christ was born, and so it was actually good timing.


Christopher Hitchens rebuttal:

1. Major issues about Christianity:
The timing of Christ is ridiculous and many people still haven't heard of Christianity. A major religious problem has been how to save people who haven't heard of religion, the answer being that it is made retrospectively, which means that evidence is unneeded, only extra. The assumption that Christianity must be true because so many people believe it so much has to be extended to other religions, which is certainly not what Christians want.

2. Difference in behavior among believers and non believers:
There is nothing a non believer can't do because they don't believe in a god, but there are lot's of things believers have done in the name of their god which a non believer would be far less likely to do. "You can't prove that anyone behaves any better if they refer this problem upward to a supreme dictator of a celestial kind".

3. Issue of free will:
Several religions say that you don't have free will. "I don't think we have any choice but to have free will". The religious answer is that of course, because god gave it to us.
