Introductory Survey

1. What made you decide to take this course?

I felt that it would interesting.

2. What do you believe is the MOST difficult issue(s) in our world today? Explain.

I think that the most difficult issue in our world is getting people to work together. That's a pretty broad issue, but I think it undermines many of the more obvious issues such as global warming or world hunger. However, I'm not sure if it's something which can actually be solved, as I think it is, to some extent, simply a product of human behaviour.

3. How would you describe your faith upbringing, if any?

It ranged from agnostic to atheist. My stepdad is an atheist, and the rest of my parents are pretty much agnostic. Growing up, the only real interaction I had with religion was when we would occasionally visit my Evangelical Christian family in Florida.

4. Do you believe in God or a higher being? Please explain your response (no right or wrong answers).

I don't, but not strongly. I don't *think* there is, but I don't think so much of myself as to say that I'm 100% sure. However, if there is a god I would say they are the greatest existential threat humanity has ever faced.

5. Would you consider yourself a religious person? Spiritual person? Is there a difference?

I wouldn't consider myself either, and though there might be a difference at face value, I think that the ideologies of both are similar. People who are religious generally put their faith in a single (mostly predetermined) set of ideas, where spiritualism is, in my opinion, similar but not as structured.

6. What do you believe to be the value of religion? The short comings? Explain briefly.

I think that religion is very good at bringing people together for a common cause. Unfortunately, religion is also good at bringing people together for a common cause. Obviously the impacts of that ability are based on who wields it, as with any tool, and I think we would have to have a longer discussion about the historical impacts religion has had overall.

7. Is it important for intelligent and educated people to have a solid understanding of religions even if they are not religious? Why or why not?

Yes, absolutely. Religion makes up such a massive part of human history that it would be ridiculous to ignore it for the sake of ideological stubbornness. 

8. What is the difference between literal vs figurative understanding of Scripture?

A literal interpretation of scripture is trying to decipher the literal meaning, whereas figurative understanding attempts to apply the overall lessons the scripture was intending to teach into a modern context.

9. Can one believe in BOTH science and religion? Why or why not?

Yes, it's very easy to argue that science could simply be a tool by which to better understand god's creations.

10. What do you find is the most challenging aspect of online learning? How can I help you with that?

I find it very difficult to maintain focus for six or so hours, but I don't think that is something which can actually be changed (after all, even the military understands that the longest most people can effectively focus for is half an hour).
