The Problem of Evil and Suffering Questions


1. According to the theist, what is the argument regarding reconciling the existence of suffering with the existence of god? (list 4)
- if god is all-powerful, he could stop suffering
- if god is all-loving, he would want to stop suffering
- there is a lot of suffering
- therefore, god is either not all-loving or not all-powerful

2. Which of the two points does the atheist disagree with?
The first and second.

3. What does Spinoza say about suffering?
Spinoza says that suffering is simply a part of reality, and if we saw all of reality we would realize that nothing is imperfect.

4. What is said about dismissing the problem without giving up all of god's essential characteristics? What is the difference between what god could do and his actual power?
One argument to dismiss the problem is to say that humans just can't understand god's logic, and that while god has no limits to his power, whether or not he uses that power may depend on other things.

5. What does C.S. Lewis say about just, unjust, and atheism. Do you agree or disagree?
He says that atheists can either choose to say that there is injustice, and concede that the idea of justice is one intrinsic to the world, or argue that justice is simply an abstract, human concept, and loose that point of argument. I disagree. I would say that justice is arbitrary, but that its lack of substance does not diminish the pain is causes for humanity.

6. What were the two objections of the existence of god by St. Thomas?
That natural processes can explain that which religion cannot, and the problem of evil.

7. List and briefly explain the four parts of the problem of evil.
- evil is not a thing: evil isn't a physical thing, so though god may have created every*thing*, he did not create evil
- the origin of evil is not god: evil is a choice, and without it there would be peace; evil is the result of sin, a turning away from god
- how to resolve evil is practice: the cross?
- philosophical problem: why do bad things happen (to good people); a) we could be bad people, b) maybe suffering isn't bad, c) we may not know all god's reasons

8. What are the three assumptions about the philosophical problem of evil?
a) we could be bad people, b) maybe suffering isn't bad, c) we may not know all god's reasons

9. What does the author say about hell and evil and the role of a loving god?
That hell is eternal evil, and that it is just a consequence of free will that we choose for ourselves.

10. What does the "atheistic community" say about what happened in Newtown, Connecticut, and god?
That a good and all powerful god would not have let the shooting happen.

11. What is said about Nietzsche's view of evil and how that represents atheism?
Nietzsche said that everything bad serves just as well for the elevation of the human species as everything good does. The author then takes this to mean that god must exist because we have a sense of good and evil.

12. For those who believe in god, how does the problem of evil actually support the existence of god? How did C.S. Lewis explain it?
He says that atheists can either choose to say that there is injustice, and concede that the idea of justice is one intrinsic to the world, or argue that justice is simply an abstract, human concept, and loose that point of argument.

13. What is said about physical death not being a complete loss? What does St. Paul say?
It is said that people who die are actually better off, and St. Paul said that death was a welcome visitor.

14. What is the difference between what the atheists tell the survivors of Newtown vs the way theists can respond? Do you or disagree?
The author says that atheists can only say that nothing evil was actually done, but the theists can say that the people killed are now in heaven. I think this is ridiculous. You don't need to talk about philosophy to comfort someone in pain, and the point that evil isn't intrinsic to the universe doesn't matter; it is intrinsic to humanity.

15. After reading the article, do you feel it has given more solid support for explaining the reconciling / the existence of god and the existence of evil? Or less? (one paragraph)
I actually think it has given very little support for the existence of god. The first red flag I noted was the author's repeated argument that because atheists are arguing against something written in the bible, they can only use the bible as evidence. That is very plainly absurd. If someone were to write a scientific paper saying that unicorns exist, with the only evidence being a collection of crayon drawings their young child made, and then state that the only way to argue that unicorns didn't exist was to cite the paper saying unicorns *do* exist, they would be laughed out of the building. Perhaps the author simply doesn't know what the phrase "peer review" means. Additionally, like some of the other theologians whose arguments we've discussed previously, the author made no distinction between evil being intrinsic to the universe and being intrinsic to humanity. They point out that if god doesn't exist to impart the universe with greater meaning, then good and evil cannot exist. I agree. However, the author fails to see that the ideas of good and evil can be intrinsic solely to humanity, which, while it removes some of the sense of cosmic meaning, does not reduce the meaning of those ideas for *people*. 
