Philosophical Skepticism Article and Questions

1. What types of skepticism are there?
Skepticism can range from disbelief, agnosticism, and scientific skepticism.

2. How is skepticism today different than the Ancient Greeks view of skepticism
In general, skepticism today focuses on simply not believing something, which is different from the ancient Greeks definition of sverige simply as a state of constant inquiry. 

3. What are three components of the skeptics' statement?
They speak only for themselves, they speak only for the present (and so do not claim that they may never know), and they add that despite their current ignorance they are looking for the answer.

4. Explain the following distinct levels from DesCartes theory (Perceptual Illusion, Dream Problem, and A Deceiving God)
Perceptual Illusion states that any sensory input cannot be trusted, the Dream Problem adds that because a very vivid dream is indistinguishable from reality we cannot prove that we are not simply in a dream, and A Deceiving God completes the problem by saying that there could be a god whose entire being is focused on deceiving us, all of which is to show that we cannot prove anything external to ourselves with any degree of certainty.

5. What one thing can we be sure of according to DesCartes?
According to DesCartes, the only thing we can be sure of is that we exist.

6. What are your views of the article and DesCartes? Choose one quote from the article.
I found this article very interesting, and many of DesCartes' points were familiar to me from discussions my brothers and I have had about similar issues. My favorite quote from the article is "This truth neither derives from sensory information nor depends upon the reality of an external world, and I would have to exist even if I were systematically deceived. For even an omnipotent god could not cause it to be true, at one and the same time, both that I am deceived and that I do not exist. If I am deceived, then at least I am". I found this a very good summary of the points made, and is wonderfully self-contained, almost a tautology in its simplicity.
