250-350 words

2. Every person has a creative side, and it can be expressed in many ways: problem solving, original and innovative thinking, and artistically, to name a few. Describe how you express your creative side.

I've been doing creative documentation as long as I can remember, mostly writing and drawing in a collection of memo notebooks that I have been collecting since I was about five years old. One of my earliest drawings is something that looks like a phone with a spider web on it, crudely drawn in colored pencil and labelled "sonar", which I vaguely remember as an idea for an elaborate sonar device. My drawings (and ideas) have gotten a bit better since then, and I always like to have a memo notebook on me in case I want to write down an idea or a sketch. Most of my more recent projects are software-oriented, which often draws on a special kind of creativity and multiple kinds of thinking. I am currently working on a  blog / personal wiki / digital garden that I built from the ground up, where I write about projects I've been working on, ideas I've had, and tools I'm using. The site itself is built and deployed using several different technologies such as bash, a makefile, cronjobs, rsync, and, in the future, Rust. I also had to learn a couple of those technologies for the project. My favorite part of the process was making the site generator, which I am still improving, and much of my time was spent making the site code small and efficient without sacrificing style. That sort of problem, in which I use a new technology I’ve learned to create something completely original, is one of my favorite types of creative expression.


3. What would you say is your greatest talent or skill? How have you developed and demonstrated that talent over time? (roguelike)

My greatest skill is my ability to do research and figure out solutions to new projects and challenges. Especially with my interest in computer science, the vast majority of what I know comes from learning on my own. Though I have certainly found classes useful when it comes to learning new skills, I often understand a subject best once I have used it on my own for a project. I have practiced this through countless exercises and problems, most recently with learning a new programming language called Rust. Rust is interesting because it is what is called a compiled language, which means that it is slightly slower to build but much faster to run. This has been a very interesting experience for me, as it is quite different from most of the languages I am already familiar with, for reasons that are probably too technical for this essay. Since finishing the one serious computer science class my high school offered, AP computer Science A, in sophomore year, I have been entirely relying on my own ability to find and learn information. Something I am looking forward to in college is adding to my more formal base of computer science knowledge. I am especially excited about the opportunity to learn about complicated subjects, such as machine learning, which are more difficult to simply learn independently. The UC faculty are known for advancing cutting edge computer science theory, so my goal would be to work in a lab under their guidance to help me prepare for graduate school. I know that a large portion of my knowledge comes from my own drive to learn about subjects which interest me, but I also appreciate and look forward to opportunities to learn in more formal environments.


5. Describe the most significant challenge you have faced and the steps you have taken to overcome this challenge. How has this challenge affected your academic achievement?

Two households -> explanation -> elementary/middle school -> high school -> current day -> results

The most significant and persistent challenge I have faced is the complexity involved in having two households. My parents divorced when I was quite young, and since then my brother and I have spent our time going between two very different households. Both of my parents remarried, so my brother and I have a large immediate family. On my mum's side is my stepdad and two step brothers, and on my dad's side is my stepmom, a step brother, and a step sister. While I have never had any animosity about this situation, it does impact me on a daily basis. Even through middle school it was a constant struggle making sure I had everything I needed when I went between houses, and the consequences of forgetting something often showed through late and missing schoolwork. By high school I had more or less figured out how to deal with the organizational side of having two households, though that frequently meant I just carried everything I needed in my backpack to make sure I always had my schoolwork. That side of things has actually improved during quarantine, because currently most of my work is digital. Having everything be online certainly helps my back, but it does mean that I have had to become much more organized on my laptop, especially with backing up work. I think that the biggest impact having two households has had on me is an awareness about the tools and materials I use, both academic and otherwise, which I would likely not have without the constraint of having to carry everything I need with me between houses. 


6. Think about an academic subject that inspires you. Describe how you have furthered this interest inside and/or outside of the classroom.

One of my favorite classes so far during high school has been AP Computer Science A (APCSA).  My first exposure to programming was the summer before 7th grade, which I spent in a Minecraft modding camp. I was immediately hooked. That same year in 7th grade I had a tech class where, for a trimester, we learned a language called Processing. That was my first introduction to programming which seemed useful, and I spent hours most days after school working on class assignments and my own projects. When the class ended I continued to work with Processing, as well as learning more about computer science in general. As a sophomore, I jumped at the chance to take APCSA, and it was really my first formal computer science class. Even though I don't think anyone would call writing native Java with a pen and paper fun, I enjoyed the class experience as a whole. Sadly, my high school does not offer any other  advanced computer science classes, so I’ve since spent a lot more time delving deeper into computer science on my own, using APCSA as a foundation to lean on. I created my github account, worked on personal projects, helped with a couple public repositories, and learned everything from Javascript to a bit of 6502 assembly. My personal projects have ranged from games to bash utilities, and I'm currently working on my website, a game, and miscellaneous terminal utilities, though I'm also interested in learning more about C, assembly, and integrated software. The tools that I make and skills that I learn are also often helpful with school, for example I recently made a bash utility that can print out a periodic table, return data about specific elements, and find the molar mass of molecules. I'm always excited to learn more about computer science in general, and I find it very rewarding to implement the skills I learn.
