University of Washington Questions

1. Tell a story from your life, describing an experience that either demonstrates your character or helped to shape it. (max 650 words)

A couple of years ago, my friend and I decided to build a drone together. He had built many small racing quads previously, but had never built a larger fixed-wing UAV. I had never built any drone, so we knew we were in for an interesting experience. We ended up spending months in his garage, putting that drone together piece by piece. It was a fixed-wing, pusher-prop drone with a three foot wingspan and an estimated range of fifty miles. We built our own head-tracking module, power distribution board, and landing gear. We even coated the wings in a plastic wrap to improve the aerodynamics, which took painstaking hours with an iron to fuse with the foam body. We hand-soldered every component, from the flight controller to the six servos. Then came the endless tweaking and trimming before we ever got off the ground, making sure the center of gravity was centered between the wings, and making sure our control surfaces could move far enough to steer our large drone. While my friend was quite familiar with all of the tools and electronics required for our endeavor, I was a bit rustier when it came to soldering or splicing wires. So for me it was also a very educational experience, and the thought of our drone crashing if I did something wrong made sure I double and triple checked the quality of my work. I cannot be sure how many hours we spent working on it, but it took almost a year to finish, with both of us working on other projects at the same time. After all of those months, we finally figured that it was as good to go as we could get it without a test flight, and we set out for our maiden voyage. The only problem was that neither of us could drive at that point, and my friend did not live particularly close to any parks. The closest one was maybe a couple miles away, down the hill, across a freeway. Fortunately, my friend did have an relatively large electric scooter. Unfortunately, he only had the one electric scooter. We ended up getting to the field with him sitting on the scooter on top of a box of electronics, with me holding on to him, standing up, with about four inches of contact between my shoes and the scooter. We somehow made it to the baseball field, and got ready for the flight. We started to get our drone set up, plugged in the battery, got our FPV goggles and controllers ready, and prepared for the first flight. My friend took the first flight, and as I threw the drone into the air it just barely seemed to gain altitude. The control surfaces seemed to be a bit sluggish, and it was worryingly nose heavy. With this in mind he landed it, and after some quick fixes we launched again, this time with me flying. My friend launched it, and I slowly began to gain some altitude. We were in a small valley, with eucalyptus on three sides of us, the third side being the freeway. I quickly had to turn to avoid flying over the freeway, and turning it around, I felt that the controls were very slow, and the drone wanted to descend. I noticed the trees too late. I floored the throttle and attempted to turn before I crashed into those sixty-foot-tall eucalyptuses, but the drone wasn't responsive enough, and tore through the canopy. In an instant, a years worth of work was reduced into debris. We recovered the pieces, packed them up, and headed home laughing about crashing our drone on the second flight. None of the electronics were damaged, and as we started working on our second drone we knew we could build it better than before with the experience we had gained.


2. Our families and communities often define us and our individual worlds. Community might refer to your cultural group, extended family, religious group, neighborhood or school, sports team or club, co-workers, etc. Describe the world you come from and how you, as a product of it, might add to the diversity of the University of Washington. (max 300 words)

As a straight, white, cis, male, I cannot claim to add to your diversity in any measurable way. My immediate family is quite large, owing to my parents divorcing when my brother and I were young. I have a brother, a mum, a dad, a stepfather, a stepmother, three stepbrothers, and a stepsister. My extended family is even larger, but far more spread out. My dad came to the U.S. twenty seven years ago, so we have a lot of family in Australia, and my mum grew up in Oklahoma, though that side of my family now lives in Florida and Georgia. Politics have never really been an issue on my dad's side, owing to the fact they live in a different country, but on my mum's side politics and religion were very much things which weren't to be brought up, as they are quite conservative and religious. When I was younger I failed to grasp this, and eventually my two cousins and my brother and I just sat down and had a conversation about our beliefs. My brother and I were raised in an agnostic and atheist family, which was quite different from our cousins' orthodox Catholic upbringing. The conversation was very polite; we talked about what we believed, and at the end of it I think we all understood each other more clearly. That is the most valuable thing I think I have gained from being in such an extended family: the ability to connect with people who share different beliefs and viewpoints than myself. I think that especially in the current day and age, the ability to communicate with people of different backgrounds than your own is critical, and though I certainly won't add to your ethnic diversity, I will at least contribute that.
