Personhood in Bioethics and Biomedical Research Questions

1. What are THREE aspects of personhood mentioned in the first page?
Persons possess exclusive or radically superior moral status, nonpersons have no or radically inferior moral status, and there are no beings existing between the categories of person and nonperson.

2. Fletcher’s FOUR PARTS to personhood
A person should display self-consciousness, potential for relationships, ability to experience happiness, and neocortical function.

3. Tooley’s EIGHT PARTS to personhood
The capacity for self-consciousness; the capacity to think; the capacity for rational thought; the capacity to arrive at decisions by deliberation; the capacity to envisage a future for oneself; the capacity to remember a past involving  oneself; the capacity for being a subject of non-momentary interests; and the capacity to use language.

4. Singer’s FOUR PARTS to personhood:
I might have just missed something, but my understanding was that his main point was that key aspect to personhood was sentience.

5. Controversy over Singer’s stance:
Such a broad categorization of personhood lead Singer to categorize "types" of personhood, and value certain types over others (i.e. humans over sentient animals, adults over fetuses, etc).

6. John Locke’s views on personhood:
"A thinking intelligent being, that has reason and reflection, and can consider itself as itself, the same thinking thing in different times and places"; important that there is no mention of body so people on extensive life support are included.

7. Psychology’s CORE pieces to personhood (what must be present and why):
The ability to think about and remember oneself, essentially just the mental portion of existence.

8. Inherent Personal Approach:
"A human becomes a person at fertilization".

9. Lee’s View on Personhood and impact on when life begins?
"The embryo or fetus has in itself all of the positive reality and information to develop itself actively into a mature human organism, and so is a whole human being".

10. Issue of consciousness and how it impacts personhood in general?
Defining personhood based on consciousness lead to lots of edge cases which are not easily reconciled with "common sense".

11. Conclusion – TWO fundamental areas (and explain briefly):
The functionalist approach essentially argues that all humans have an innate worth independent of any characteristic, and so all humans have worth. The gradualist approach defines personhood based on certain biological characteristics, and attempts to reconcile biology with morality.

12. Choose one quote from the article that stood out to you – type it out and then share WHY it stood out and what it brings up for you. (Several sentences)
"Given the widespread debate over almost every aspect of personhood, some question whether the concept really helps in ethics". I found this quote intersting because it mirrored some of my own thought about the matter, though I think I came to a different conclusion than they did. My view is that the question 'what defines personhood' is a naive oversimplification to a question without an answer. The question is not 'what defines personhood', but 'what morals are correct'. This question inherently cannot be answered because morals exist only in the imagination, and not in any actual universal rule. Thus, the simplification of morality to personhood is ridiculous. Personhood does not and will never have a single definition, because the anthropocentric foundation it is based on is fundamentally facile. Morality, as a result of its factitious nature, restricts its children theories to similarly factitious existences.