Ben Hammond
Ms. Sarmiento
Psych Realism, Period 4
24 September 2020

Demain Final Reading Assessment

1. Pick ONE character and explain what part of Sinclair’s psyche they represent. Include at least two quotes and explain how they support your answer. Each quote should be cited with page numbers.

  In the novel "Demian", Herman Hesse uses Jung's theories of pschyoanalysis to represent Sinclair's process of individuation through the character Demian, demonstrating the importnce of role models to that process, but also the necessity of isolation. Midway through the novel, as Sinclair is struggling with the idea of duality between good and evil, he recieves a note from Demian which reveals new depth to the question: "I sank into a deep reverie. There could be no doubt about it, this was Demian's reply. No one else could know about my painting. He had grasped its meaning and was helping me interpret it. But how did all of this fit together?" (Hesse 68). Here, Demian is clearly a mentor figure, appearing out of the blue to give Sinclair advice and perspective. But while he helps interpret Sinclair's painting, pushing Sinclair to seek further truths, he also creates more mystery and confusion for Sinclair. While the help Demian gives as that mentor figure is useful, it also removes some of the burden of self reflection from Sinclair, lengthening that important process of Jungian individuation. Insight into just why this is is given in Sinclair's question "how did all of this fit together", which simultaneously shows Demain's helpful influence: showing Sinclair the pieces, and the downside of that influence: a sense of discontinuity between Sinclair's knowledge and his understanding. While Demain's influence is initially helpful, it also confuses Sinclair on his path to individuation. At the end of the novel, after Sinclair is injured in world war one, he meets Demian again in a hospital, only for Demian to, presumably, die of his own injuries. As the story ends, Sinclair reflects on his life, and on the impact Demian had on it: "Everything that has happened to me since has hurt. But sometimes when I find the key and climb deep into myself where the images of fate lie aslumber in the dark mirror, I need only bend over that dark mirror to behold my own image, now completely resembling him, my brother, my master" (104). Sinclair, left without Demain, comes to terms with his life, ultimately finding within himself that which for so long he saw in the faces of other: his fate. The metaphor of Sinclair finding a key to reach the inner recesses of his psyche reveals the role which Demain had: a mentor who help allowed Sinclair to unlock access to his own understanding. The seemingly paradoxical description of Sinclair then climbing deep into himself also shows the true difficulty of individuation: it comes not from some outside wisdom but from the willingness to explore the depths of one's own consciousness. For Sinclair, that knowledge revealed to him the tautology of his fate through the metaphor of a "dark mirror", showing him that he is is future and his future is him. Throughout Hesse's novel, Sinclair winds a tortuous path towards individuation, aided by mentors but ultimately finding the strength inside himself when he was most alone. His story remains a model of Jungian psychology; a perfect example of Jung's process of individuation, and, perhaps, a lesson to learn from.

2. Do you think Max Demian and Frau Eva are real? Why or why not? 

  I do not think that Demain and Eva are real, because they are too convient and perfect. Though that may seem inconsequential in a fictional novel, when compared to the other figures in the story they seem out of place and ill-fitting in the bleak envirnment Hesse depicts. Pistorious, for example, seems real in his imperfections and insecurities, whereas Demian remains a perfect mentor and role model for Sinclair throughout the story. I think that Demain and Eva are extensions of Sinclair's subconscious, representing his idea of perfection and enlightenment.