Meyers-Briggs Personality Test and Reflection (INTJ)

1. Write a ONE paragraph - using NO LESS than 300 words - on how your personality type shows up in your everyday life, via you BEHAVIOR over you EMOTIONS. What do you DO that may be prompted by your personality type and WHY? This may require some additional research into your individual personality type, which is easily accessible via the internet. Be sure to reference each of the four letters individually in your paragraph.

While most of the letters only had 60% confidence or less, the "I" (introverted) value was at 75%, which makes sense. While under certain circumstances I can enjoy being with groups, I, for the most part, feel less drained when I'm on my own. The other letters were, in my opinion, pretty ambigious, so it makes sense that they were sort of all close to the middle for me. I feel that in general it's more useful to not rely on any one way of thinking than to try and identify with a certain personality type. If I were to try and connect this personality type to my everyday life I think that it shows how I'm pretty average in most regards. I don't really have much of a preference for thinking over feeling - I think that both are important - which shows in the narrow split between "T" and "F" in my test outcome. I think that the test answers are accurate in some ways and totally off base in others. For example, one of the statements about INTJs is that "It can be difficult for Architects to find people who can keep up with their non-stop analysis of things", which I think is often true... but mostly because I'm not great at explaining things. Additionally, they say that INTJs are "are imaginative yet decisive", which is totally wrong for me. I would like to think I'm imagenitive, but I would definitely not count myself as decisive. I'm not indecisive, I just don't normally have strong opinions. My favorite incorrect statement is: "They’re confident in their mastery of their chosen subjects". Yeah, no. While I may have been confident in my "mastery" when I was younger (one time when asked by my dad if I could explain what a coil gun - something I'd previously been talking about - was, I responded with "I would tell you, but it's very complicated"), that's pretty much gone now.

2. Next, write a separate reflection - using NO LESS than 200 words - on how much you think you just learned about yourself through the process of taking the test and researching your result. Do you make more sense to you? Do you agree with the results? Why or why not?

I don't really think I learned that much about myself from this test. I've taken this test for school three or four times since 6th grade, and it's always been the same answer. At this point its not really novel anymore, but it is always interesting to see just how many ways they can say "You're a nerd!". The results do make sense to me, in the sense that the result is essentially another way of restating my answers to the questions. For example, if I say that I get more energy from being on my own, and then someone thinks about it and says I'm more introverted, its not exactly shocking or interesting, but more or less just what I already said. So in that way of course I don't disagree with the answers, they're what I already think. That doesn't exactly make the answers interesting though. In my opinion, these personality tests can be useful because they essentially summarize what you already think about yourself, which is good if you don't quite know what you're like, but can also become problematic when someone views themself through that (potentially overly simplified) personality type instead of through their own inuition.